Alright! In this video, we are going to do a
little troubleshooting. I have a post up in
here on Udemy of
the release plugin for the Spring Pet
Clinic project. It can be a little
temperamental. Here, we can see one of
my students has posted up here. They
are getting an error in the release
process and he's posted some screenshots
here. We can see that things are failing
for some reason. We're not getting
through, so we are building this and
there's a failure. The problem is, this is
showing the failure message but
somewhere up in the stack trace above,
there is an actual error message that's
going to give us a lot more insight.
Fortunately, what we have here is we do
have this GitHub link. I'm going
to go ahead and open that.
This gives me his source control
here, so I'm going to go ahead and fork it.
Okay, I want to interject a quick
spoiler alert here.
I do not ultimately solve the problem.
I'm not able to recreate the students
problem in this video but I do go
through a number of troubleshooting
steps. So I recorded the video and was
not able to record or recreate the issue
but the troubleshooting that I go
through here, I figured I'd include it
anyways and put it up and make it part
of the course because I think seeing the
steps that I go through and the things
that I'm looking at I think you can
learn from that, so I'm going to go ahead
and include it. But I did want to inject a
spoiler alert. I do go through this and
not able to recreate the issue. It's 27.50. I
never carry while I'm working. It
ruins the lines of my suit. How about
Chris by 5? Okay, Merry Christmas.
By clicking right here, you can see I
have a several repos in my organization
or get associated might GitHub account.
I'm going to go to this guy here, of course.
It's going to fork off to my Spring
Framework Guru GitHub account, that I'm
sure a lot of you are familiar with.
Here this is. I am going to go ahead and
do a clone here and I normally don't
open up IntelliJ. Let's give IntelliJ
a shot so I'm going to say IntelliJ from
version control.
It's asking me for a password and say
allow. That's my GitHub
credentials stored.
And you can see here,
I have a source and then have a temp
folder in my source directory. I'm
going to say go ahead and clone that.
We can see that IntelliJ is gone and
cloned the project.
We can see that IntelliJ is going
through and doing initial indexing of
the project.
There's a few different things that
could be happening here.
I just want to say
into this cold so I really don't know
what we we have cooking. So I'm clicking
a refresh here.
For some reason, we're picking up two
roots.
We got some index
going in a little pause in IntelliJ.
I got a little background music here, Spafford. Check out Spafford on
SoundCloud. Their description
is we jam. So I do like jamming music
here a little bit. IntelliJ has
completed its thing. This file here
definitely should not be checked in so
I'm going to delete that.
These are some temp files that
should not be checked in. I should add
that to the .gitignore file.
You want to be
careful with checking in temporary files like
that.
I'm just giving
things an over look to see if anything
pops out at me. I'm not seeing anything
at this point,
so let's see here. I am going to open up
terminal now.
This is a feature inside of
IntelliJ.
Just making sure I'm in the right
directory.
I do have Maven installed
so I'm going to run a
mvn...
I'm running mvn clean install.
That's going to enforce Maven to go
through and build everything.
I am getting a successful build
there.
I'm going to come back
here to
Udemy.
So let's see here. Maven.
I going to do a Maven.
mvn release:prepare.
We can see here, I got a couple things going on and
IntelliJ asked me to import. I'm
going to say yes. Important to point out
right now, I'm working into two different
things.
IntelliJ indexes the project but I also
have the command line and I'm down on
the command line even though I'm inside
IntelliJ. Very important to remember that
that is running in the operating system
and not inside of IntelliJ. So, two
completely separate processes going on.
Even though I'm inside of IntelliJ, this
window down at the bottom is on the
operating system. It isn't terminal.
I'm going to just accept the new
releases.
We can see everything
is going through okay.
All happy so far.
There, we got an error.
This is a git error.
That is
because here I've got his repo here. So let me change that to mine.
Handy little copy to
clipboard.
Jump over here.
That's updating to my GitHub account,
so go ahead and tell IntelliJ to import
that.
I can see that IntelliJ re-index things
properly. I don't have multiple modules
there. Not quite sure why that happened.
I just did a release clean. I make
sure this, okay, so those files dropped. We
have the revision or the version has
been changed. I'm going to revert that
as well as this guy here. That's not
going to be happy.
I'm imagining this guy has been
changed too.
Okay.
I'm also going to check the version
control, so my POM has been changed.
Just making sure
that it's okay.
I'm reviewing the changes before I
try this release process again.
That looks okay.
Let's come back over to terminal.
I'm going to run the release:prepare
again.
Press the enter enter
enter.
Everything's looking good right
now. See if we get the error again. Again,
the previous error that was trying to
push up to GitHub.
Tag already exist.
Let's see here.
Try if I can delete the tag right
here. That's not there.
The problem is that we have
that tag there so I'm going to go in.
That's my local Git.
Clean
this up.
I could delete that. Nope. I could go and
delete that but what I'm going to do is just
be easier to go in and increment this.
I'm updating to 0.0.2 so I don't even
mess with that tag. Just be honest, I
know I can do that in Git, but I
honestly forgot the command
so I'm just being a little lazy
here in doing this.
So now, everything's good.
mvn...
I'm doing mvn clean install here to
build a project, make sure that it builds
properly with the new version, and then
we'll go through and try the release
process again.
That's good. Let's try to release:prepare again. This time, hopefully, we don't
have any problems with GitHub.
Let's see here. I got a success and
we skipped and skipped.
I'm not sure why we had pet clinic doing
okay but data and web are not happy.
Let's do a...
I'm going to do the perform.
See if I can duplicate his error.
I honestly don't remember if skipping those two
modules is a problem or not.
If it is, we'll look at it closer.
I'm not being able to recreate his
problem right now
so I'm not quite sure what's happening. I
am concerned that these two are getting
skipped. I don't understand why
that is, but it looks like things
went okay. So we're on a 0.3 snapshot. I
toggle over here to Git.
We can see that we did push up
so the did
function the way we thought it would
allegedly. We did get the tag pushed.
This is the 0.0.2 so that
did function properly, so we did
create that release.
I am concerned that these two got
skipped, which is interesting.
Over here,
That should definitely not be there.
Alright. I don't remember that status.
I'm going to switch
over to my version
and do the same thing.
I'm doing a mvn release:prepare on my
version of pet clinic. What I'm
looking at is I'm trying to see if those
two are getting ignored or
skipped, I should say. I honestly don't
remember what happens there.
That's why I'll switch back over
here so that these two modules are
getting skipped or shown our success but
it skipped. I want to see if that's
correct or not.
That is what's happening for me.
Let's double check.
I'm going to do a perform.
Luckily, we have a little bit of spam for
cooking in the background while
this is building for us.
The release:perform works as well.
That appears to be normal
behavior for these two to get skipped
or show skip, but we are showing a built
success there that the release process
did complete normally. Now this is
different from what he's seeing,
so it is going skip skipped. But he's
showing a
failure in this here, so we are
getting a failure.
The problem is that he did not show us
the error message.
What we need to do here is find out
why.
The error is
somewhere. That problem is somewhere
up in the stack trace, so we need to look
at the build blogs of pet clinic, the
snapshot, and find out why that is
failing. There's some type of
failure there that we're not seeing.
Sometimes its cryptic. We can hear is as Maven suggests run it with the dash
X for the debugging. That will give
us more insights, so I am going to
respond back to the student on this and
see
if we can get additional information
because right now I can't recreate this
error. It's working fine for me. I
checked out from his GitHub. The only
difference is I am using my Maven.
You can see I'm on a Java 1.8
and I'm using Maven 3.5.
Not using maven wrapper.
So that's 3.5.3 so and I'm on
3.5.2 from the command line, so minor
release Maven. I doubt if that is the
issue. Maybe he's running Java 10.
That could cause a build problem for
sure because we are not set up to run Java 10 on this Spring project. If
we're running Java 9 or 10, that
could definitely be a problem. I'm going
to respond back to him on this. I'm
not going to bother committing this into my
GitHub because there's really nothing I
can communicate to him.